he had met all the regional Partners
Saudi Arabia Kata Jordan UAE the
Palestinian Authority and Egypt of
course saying there was a clear
consensus and need for an immediate
sustained ceasefire with the release of
hostages also spoke of the UN Security
Council resolution which has been tabled
by the United States which has marked
change in direction also the need to
increase Aid to gazi spoke of impending
Israeli incursion to Rafa uh he spoke of
the two State solution and much more
besides uh s shuker for his part said
there's no time to exacerbate suffering
no room to continue War I could go on
but I won't because we're joined Now by
our diplomatic editor James Bay who who
knows much more about these things and I
do now so what was your overall
assessment it seemed to me that
secretary blinken although accepting
there very real challenges ahead it was
pretty bullish yeah it was pretty
bullish and I thought the tone of the
whole thing was really rather
consolatory and there was not a great
deal of criticism um that you know this
is the sixth visit of secretary blinkin
to the region since October the 7th and
he had some very tough discussions with
these Arab leaders uh early on after
October the 7th even in the statement
that comes from all of the different
foreign ministers that met him today no
condemnation of of the US uh they talk
in the statement of the disastrous
repercussions of the Israeli War on the
Gaza Strip and and in the news
conference yes there was the the
Egyptian foreign minister raised the
issue of double standards but only in
response to a question it's not
something he brought up on the on the
other hand of course in terms of Israel
there was so many criticisms from the
Secretary of State towards Israel which
suggest to me that his meetings tomorrow
it's going to be a reversal of what it
was nearo October the meetings tomorrow
uh that he's going to have in Tel Aviv
and Jerusalem are going to be much much
more difficult because he was so
critical of uh the Rafer offensive he
says there is a better way he said it
would be a mistake it's is something we
cannot support um with regard to Aid uh
he said uh that there needs to be a
surge it cannot continue as it is now
Israel needs to do more and of course
when he talks about his grand plan for
the way forward he talks about a
revitalized Palestinian Authority yes
there are things that the Arab Nations
and the PA need to do there are they is
America and the US going to be happy
just with a new prime minister or does
there have to be more fundamental change
we have a Palestinian president mmud
abas still at the top who was elected in
2005 for a four-year term he's now in
his 20th year of that four-year term
right but it is the PA that the US want
to run uh Gaza going forward a
revitalized PA and then it's a two-state
solution now guess what the Israeli
policy or the Israeli views of current
government is they don't believe the PA
should be running Gaza and they don't
believe in a two-state solution and in
fact although he's not a absolute key
player in the war cabinet basically
you're running this war at the moment
he's not in it Israel Kats who's the um
foreign minister of Israel who if they
do another news conference like this
tomorrow he's going to be standing there
next to secretary blinkin he does not
believe in a Palestinian State and he
wants to Annex all of the West Bank and
he's going to be sitting next standing
next to secretary blinkin so there'll be
much more disagreement I think in 24
hours time than there is now can you
just give us a bit of context in terms
of Egypt's role in all this and why
these talks are taking place in Egypt
now why this press conferences has been
held here what is the importance of
Egypt in in the whole scene well several
several factors here um number one
geography Egypt has the border with Rafa
and it's the only place that has access
to GA to Gaza other than Israel so that
makes it absolutely key clearly Egypt
has a regional role in the Arab uh
region uh that makes it one of the
dominant players it was the country that
did the first peace deal uh with Israel
so Egypt I think always has felt that it
it it it should be the lead partner in
this and it is very much Egypt and Qatar
are the two countries that are the
mediators in what's going on and we have
we have the venue of of of Israel with
regard to this Rafa operation but the
other two places that are important
right now are here in Doha and the talks
here Egypt and katar have been brokering
them we understand that the Mossad Chief
David bar he was here in Doha earlier in
the week he left he's coming back
suggesting these talks as secretary
blinkin says the gaps are narrowing it's
still difficult I continue to believe
it's possible possible progress also the
talk there raised which he wouldn't
confirm that the CI CIA director Bill
Burns might be on his way here too so I
I think you know that is a key Center
and the other Center of course which the
Secretary of State spoke to spoke about
is New York and the possibility that
this draft resolution that the US have
now put in blue that means put ready for
a vote could be voted on and there's
some talk in New York but maybe things
could happen in the next 24 hours as
well so it could be a very exciting um
few hours coming things are really
beginning to happen now so we'll see how
it all pans out James for the time being
thanks very much indeed at James space
here in the studio uh well let's all
this diplomacy is going on let's get the
scene on the ground we get the very
latest from T abom who joins us from
Rafa in southern Gaza so tell us more
about what's been happening because I
understand there's been more
[Music]
strikes yes uh Nick in fact there has
been more air strikes in the past few
hours across the Gaza Strip specifically
in the southern part of the territory
here in Rafa the Israeli FY Jets had
targeted AR res had targeted an
agricultural land in the uh
western western eastern part of the of
the of Rafa district with no casualties
has have been report have been reported
in the past hour but also we have been
seeing more attacks on the anarat
refugee camp where a residential
building was completely flattened where
uh two Palestinians have reported
injured and those injuries had been
transported after long hours of rescue
to the AL AA hospital to receive medical
treatment but yet till now the
bombardment in the Gaza City sounds
really critical and unprecedented where
the Israeli forces had blowing up a
number of residential houses on the
vicinity of aifa hospital where battles
and confrontations are raging till now
and did not stop as the Israeli military
had been stating that they have arrested
300 Palestinians at least till now and
killed uh 140 others since the beginning
of this
operation TK thanks for that to T Abu
Zoom there speaking to us from Rafa in
southern Gaza